#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing double
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\topmargin 0.5in
\bottommargin 1in
\headsep 0.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Author
\paragraph_spacing double
Alexander Kaiser
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

CSCE-221-501
\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
\paragraph_spacing double
Multiple 3D RNA Structure Superposition Using Neighbor Joining
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing double
As opposed to double stranded DNA, RNA is a single stranded form of matter
 that is free to form with other RNA strings within the same vacinity.
 RNA are compared to one another by their stems, loops and necks.
 The RNA can be aligned using an algorithmic function called SETTER, which
 uses generalized secondary structure units in order to match these three
 properties in order to find two non-overlapping 3D RNA strands that are
 most alike.
 The SETTER program is a series of else if statements that starts with comparing
 the two RNA strands' position of nucleotides, it's neighboring nucleotide
 type and the strands' raw length.
 The algorithm returns a value called an 
\shape italic
S-score, 
\shape default
which is a measurement of the superposition of two RNA structures.
 The lower the 
\shape italic
S-score 
\shape default
the higher the superposition of two RNA structures.
 Recently, a program by the name of MultiSETTER has become a more effective
 alternative to the original SETTER program.
 The MultiSETTER program uses an algorithm orignially used for the multialignmen
t of protiens called ClustalW.
 This algorithm creates a dendrogram, or guide tree, for the neighboring
 RNA molecules to align with one another until the most identical structures
 are matched, very much like an else if statement used in programming.
 This new advancement in RNA matching has increased the capability of matching
 long structures significantly as well as decreased runtime of SETTER by
 around seventy-five percent.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing double
This advancement in genetic matching impacts society and the economy in
 a plethora of ways.
 As for both categories, the decrease in runtime that comes from the multi-core
 processing power of MultiSETTER eliminates downtime that can be used for
 other research purposes.
 The improved matching ability MultiSETTER brings to the field of genetics
 will also allow for many new discoveries that would not be possible if
 it not were for the precision that the new program displays.
 Examples of these discoveries include knowledge of the human species as
 a whole, increased research in genomic medicines and prevention and research
 of genetic disorders.
 Finally, since MultiSETTER is a compilation of C++ source code it can be
 seen that the functionality as well as the uses for C++ are rapidly increasing
 day after day.
 The ever increasing list of uses for C++ expands with every new idea that
 is brought to the table.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "Source 1"

\end_inset

Hoksza, David, and Daniel Svozil.
 "Multiple 3D RNA Structure Superposition Using Neighbor Joining." IEEE/ACM
 Trans.
 Comput.
 Biol.
 and Bioinf.
 IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics 12.3 (2015):
 520-30.
 Web.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
